README.md, before:

# Updo

> A hairstyle and a way of maintaining and upgrading Haskell projects.

## What is a Project?

Updo is good for project packages, constraints, source repository packages and
stackage resolver[^download-stackage-config]. More than this can be added into a
project template.

[^download-stackage-config]: For cabal, the cabal.config will have to be
  downloaded to `project-stackage/resolver.config` and then edited to comment
  out constraints that would otherwise lead to impossible to solve conflicting
  constraints because cabal constraints are additive and cannot be overridden.

## Goals

1. Map a single set of packages, constraints and source repository packages to
   projects for cabal and stack.
2. Minimize the effort of upgrading constraints, source repository packages and
   GHC versions.

We do this with configuration in `.dhall` files, makefiles and `dhall text`
templates. We also have some simple Haskell scripts for operations not possible
in Dhall like sorting a `List Text`[^dhall-sort-list-nat].

[^dhall-sort-list-nat]: Dhall can only sort `List Natural`.

## Configure

What do we want to configure? We don't need much:

1. A list of packages.
2. A stackage resolver[^download-stackage-config].
3. A list of constraints (package dependencies with their versions).
4. A list of source packages, for unpublished[^unpublished-packages] packages or
  for unpublished versions of packages.

[^unpublished-packages]: A package not published to hackage or stackage.

### Lists of Packages

It is nice to be able to look at packages both grouped and as one sorted list.
We provide one level of nesting for groups for the list of internal packages. If
you don't want groups then please put all packages in the one group.

* `dhall2config` - When generating the cabal project we keep [package
  groups](#package-groups), generating the same tree structure but replacing the
  leaves. From each `group-name.dhall`, we generate a `group-name.config` file
  and then in the project there is one `import
  project-cabal/pkgs/group-name.config` for each group.
* `dhall2cabal` - This template lists packages within the cabal project.
* `dhall2stack` - Stack projects cannot import so necessarily must lose the
  grouping and contain the list of packages.

### Stackage Resolver and Constraints

The stackage resolver is able to provide us with a list of packages that work
together for both stack and cabal. Any other dependencies as constraints or
source packages are either not found on stackage or are different versions.

By specifying a resolver with stack we get a list of exact `==` versions for
packages published to stackage. Stackage also publishes a `cabal.config` file
that has these package versions as cabal constraints. As cabal constraints are
additive, in practice importing directly from stackage often leads to conflicts
between stackage's constraints and the project's own constraints and for that
reason we'll usually have to download the `cabal.config` from
stackage[^stackage-config-url-path] and comment out lines that are conflicted.

[^stackage-config-url-path]: The URL path to download this file from is
  `/resolver/cabal.config`. The latest nightly is always at
  https://www.stackage.org/nightly/cabal.config.

We don't expect any packages to impose constraints on their dependencies at the
package level, in their `.cabal` files, but if they do then these constraints
must fit with constraints at the project level.

### List of Source Packages

There are various reasons to depend on source packages and forks of source
packages; to keep a mirror within your organization, to add fixes that haven't been
upstreamed yet, or to pick up a fix someone else has made but hasn't yet been merged
upstream, released and published.

### Why Dhall for Configuration?

Dhall has excellent imports. It is an intentionally limited programming
language. You won't be able to compare anything but `Natural` values so sorting
something like `List Text` is not possible within it but there is great interop
with Haskell so this can be done there.

The `dhall` executable comes with a `format` command[^format-lsp]. This helps in
the maintenance of the various `.dhall` files.

We use dhall's `text` command to write cabal and stack projects using [dhall
text templating][dhall-text-templating].

[^format-lsp]: Formatting is also available with the [Dhall LSP Server][LSP].

## Maintaining a Project

All configuration goes into `./project-dhall` (where `.` is the root folder for
your Haskell project) except for the `cabal.config` that we'll need to download
from stackage. Save this file as `project-stackage/lts-m.n.config` using the
exact resolver name.

```
project-stackage
└── lts-m.n.config
```

### Package Groups
In the `pkgs` folder, create one or more groups for related packages.

```
project-dhall
├── ghc-x.y.z
├── pkgs
│   ├── db.dhall      ▨ List Text
│   ├── server.dhall  ▨ List Text
│   └── tools.dhall   ▨ List Text
└── pkg-groups.dhall  ▨ List Text
```

The contents of each group is a `List Text` of relative paths to folders
containing package `.cabal` files.

```dhall
[ "./tool/linter/"
, "./tool/formatter/"
]
```

List the package groups in `pkg-groups.dhall`[^pkg-groups]. This gives you
control of the imports in the generated `./project-cabal/pkgs.config`,
itself imported into `ghc-x.y.z.dhall2config.project`:

```cabal
-- ./project-cabal/pkgs.config
import: project-cabal/pkgs/db.config
import: project-cabal/pkgs/server.config
import: project-cabal/pkgs/tools.config

-- ./ghc-x.y.z.dhall2config.project
import: project-stackage/lts-m.n.config

import: project-cabal/pkgs.config

import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/constraints.config
import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/deps-external.config
import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/deps-internal.config
import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/forks-external.config
import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/forks-internal.config
```

[^pkg-groups]: Dhall can't do arbitrary IO like reading files from a folder.

For each `ghc-x.y.z` compiler version, create this set of inputs and templates:

```
project-dhall
└── ghc-x.y.z
    ├── constraints.dhall      ▨ List { dep : Text, ver : Text }
    ├── deps-external.dhall    ▨ List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
    ├── deps-internal.dhall    ▨ List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
    ├── forks-external.dhall   ▨ List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
    ├── forks-internal.dhall   ▨ List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
    └── text-templates
        ├── dhall2cabal.dhall  ▨ template for ghc-x.y.z.dhall2cabal.project
        ├── dhall2config.dhall ▨ template for ghc-x.y.z.dhall2config.project
        ├── dhall2stack.dhall  ▨ template for ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
        └── stacksnippet.dhall ▨ anything for ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

Anything in `stacksnippet.dhall` gets added to the top of the generated stack
project[^base.yaml].  The rest of the files are inputs. In
constraints[^constraints] put published packages that you want to use that are
not on stackage or if they are on stackage where you want to use a different
version.

[^base.yaml]: Anything in `stacksnippet.dhall` will be used by
  [dhall2yaml2stack](alternatives/yaml2stack#readme) too and is put into a
  `base.yaml`, the topmost fragment when stitching together fragments.

[^constraints]: To stack, constraints and source repository packages are
    both `extra-deps`. We use cabal-like nomenclature but, be warned, cabal
    constraints cover more than just `package ==version`, such as flags:
    ```cabal
    constraints:
        bson -_old-network
      , HaXml +splitbase
    ```

```dhall
[ { dep = "diagrams-postscript", ver = "1.5" }
, { dep = "diagrams-svg", ver = "1.4.3" }
]
```

The type of constraints is a list of records with dependency and version fields:

```dhall
List { dep : Text, ver : Text }
```
  
The type of the other files are all the same. They contain a list of records
with fields for location, tag (commit SHA) and subdirectories:

```dhall
List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
```

Any empty `sub` field must be type annotated like this `[] : List Text`. Each
source repository package record will bring in one dependency or as many as
there are `sub` fields.

These source repository `*.dhall` files are for original work from your
organisation (internal) and from third parties (external) and for internal and
external forks. If using the empty list in any one of these files then use an
explicit type annotation:

```dhall
[] : List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
```

With the `dhall text` command we're able to mirror to both stack and cabal
projects using string templates. See [templates](./TEMPLATES.md) for more.

## Upgrading a Project

For a GHC compiler upgrade, add another folder to `project-dhall` for the
upgrade from `ghc-u.v.w` to `ghc-x.y.z`:

```
project-dhall
├── ghc-u.v.w
├── ghc-x.y.z
├── pkgs
│   ├── db.dhall            ▨ List Text
│   ├── server.dhall        ▨ List Text
│   └── tools.dhall         ▨ List Text
├── pkg-groups.dhall        ▨ List Text
└── pkgs-upgrade-todo.dhall ▨ List Text
```

At the start of a GHC upgrade put all packages into
`project-dhall/pkgs-upgrade-todo.dhall`. As the upgrade progresses remove
packages from this list as you work on them.

For a dependency version upgrade, add or change an entry in `constraints.dhall`
and if that dependency is on stackage for the resolver we're using and if the
version there differs then comment out that entry in the downloaded
`project-stackage/resolver-name.config` file to avoid impossible constraint
solving conflicts with cabal.

For a source repository upgrade, bump the `tag` field if picking up a newer
version.

If the `tag` you were on has been superseded by a published version then delete
the entry and add a constraint unless the published version is already a match
in the downloaded `cabal.config` file from stackage.

If you are forking then you'll want to add a record to `fork-internal.dhall` and
then:
- If forking a stackage package: comment out the entry in the downloaded `cabal.config`
- If forking a hackage package: delete the matching entry in `constraints.dhall`

Using someone else's fork is the same except add the record to
`fork-external.dhall`.

Unforking goes the other way, remove the `fork-*.dhall` entry and either
fallback to the stackage version or another version for which you'll add an
entry in `constraints.dhall`.

## Make Targets

In the root of your project, add two files.

```
.
├── project-files.mk
└── project-versions.mk
```

In `project-versions.mk` set variables for GHC and STACKAGE.

```make
GHC_VERSION := u.v.w
GHC_UPGRADE := x.y.z
STACKAGE_VERSION := lts-j.k
STACKAGE_UPGRADE := lts-m.n
```

Here is a basic set up for `project-files.mk`:

```make
include project-versions.mk
include updo/Makefile
```

With this set up we can build projects:

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2config.project
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2cabal.project
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

For stack, the project and its lock are separate targets (`.yaml` and
`.yaml.lock`).

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
dhall text --file project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/project-stack.dhall > ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml.lock
stack build --dry-run --stack-yaml ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

We don't provide a make target for cabal `.project.freeze` files, relying
instead on a combination of constraints, those in the `cabal.config` downloaded
from stackage and those we add ourselves to `constraints.dhall`. If you do want
to freeze anyway there's a cabal command to generate a freeze file.

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2cabal.project
dhall text --file project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/project-cabal.dhall > ghc-x.y.z.dhall2cabal.project
```

## Clean GHC-Prefixed Projects

There's a make target to remove all `ghc-x.y.z` prefixed projects:

```
$ make -f project-files.mk clean
rm -f ghc-*.stack.* ghc-*.dhall2config.* ghc-*.dhall2cabal.* ghc-*.dhall2stack.*
ghc-*.stack2cabal.* ghc-*.cabal2stack.* ghc-*.dhall2yaml2stack.* ghc-*.sha256map.nix
```

## GHC-Prefixed Projects as Temporary

To treat `ghc-x.y.z` prefixed files as temporary, add lines like these to
`project-files.mk`:

```make
.INTERMEDIATE: ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).$(CABAL_VIA).project
.INTERMEDIATE: ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).$(STACK_VIA).yaml
.INTERMEDIATE: ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).sha256map.nix
```

We use CABAL_VIA and STACK_VIA variables to decide which `ghc-x.y.z` prefixed
projects will be copied to the default project names (`cabal.project` and
`stack.yaml`).

This way, Updo will create a single pair of projects (`cabal.project` and
`stack.yaml`) for one version of GHC.

## SHA256 Map Generation Method

With this snippet from `project-files.mk`, we can switch between two methods of
generating `ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix`.

```make
# How to generate nix/services/stackProject/sha256map.nix?
# This is copied from ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).sha256map.nix.
#  - false to generate from *.dhall inputs via sha256map.hs.
#  - true to generate from stack.yaml via sha256map.py.
SHA256MAP_VIA_PYTHON := false

# If true, generate the sha256map from the stack.yaml with python,
# overriding the recipe for this target.
ifeq ($(SHA256MAP_VIA_PYTHON), true)
ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).sha256map.nix: stack.yaml
	updo/project-nix/sha256map.py <$^ >$@
endif
```

The default is to use the `sha256map.hs` script to generate
it[^replacing_versions]:

[^replacing_versions]: Using ghc-x.y.z and lts-m.n in the example output, not
  the actual GHC version or resolver.

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix --always-make
echo \
  '[./project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/deps-external.dhall
  , ./project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/deps-internal.dhall
  , ./project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/forks-external.dhall
  , ./project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/forks-internal.dhall
  , ([] : List {loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text})
  ]' \
  | ./updo/project-nix/sha256map.hs > ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix
```

To use the `sha256map.py` script instead that is much slower:

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix --always-make SHA256MAP_VIA_PYTHON=true
mkdir -p .updo && updo/project-dhall/pkgs-sorted.hs > .updo/pkgs-sorted.dhall
echo \
  './project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/text-templates/dhall2stack.dhall
   ./.updo/pkgs-sorted.dhall "lts-m.n"' \
  | dhall text --output ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
cp ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml stack.yaml
updo/project-nix/sha256map.py <stack.yaml >ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix
rm ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

You can [read more about Updo Nix](project-nix#readme) and its use with
haskell.nix.

[dhall-text-templating]: https://www.haskellforall.com/2017/06/dhall-is-now-template-engine.html
[LSP]: https://github.com/PanAeon/vscode-dhall-lsp-server

Commit message:

Add a templates section early on.

README.md, after:

# Updo

> A hairstyle and a way of maintaining and upgrading Haskell projects.

## What is a Project?

Updo is good for project packages, constraints, source repository packages and
stackage resolver[^download-stackage-config]. More than this can be added into a
project template.

[^download-stackage-config]: For cabal, the cabal.config will have to be
  downloaded to `project-stackage/resolver.config` and then edited to comment
  out constraints that would otherwise lead to impossible to solve conflicting
  constraints because cabal constraints are additive and cannot be overridden.

## Goals

1. Map a single set of packages, constraints and source repository packages to
   projects for cabal and stack.
2. Minimize the effort of upgrading constraints, source repository packages and
   GHC versions.

We do this with configuration in `.dhall` files, makefiles and `dhall text`
templates. We also have some simple Haskell scripts for operations not possible
in Dhall like sorting a `List Text`[^dhall-sort-list-nat].

[^dhall-sort-list-nat]: Dhall can only sort `List Natural`.

## Configure

What do we want to configure? We don't need much:

1. A list of packages.
2. A stackage resolver[^download-stackage-config].
3. A list of constraints (package dependencies with their versions).
4. A list of source packages, for unpublished[^unpublished-packages] packages or
  for unpublished versions of packages.

[^unpublished-packages]: A package not published to hackage or stackage.

## Templates

We generate projects from the configured inputs using templates.

We provide one stack template `dhall2stack`. The `dhall2cabal` template for
cabal is so similar that the generated outputs can be compared using file diff
tooling. However, we prefer the `dhall2config` template because it retains
package groups that can bring order to an [upgrade](#upgrading-a-project) if the
cabal solving order is roughly captured by package group ordering.

### Lists of Packages

It is nice to be able to look at packages both grouped and as one sorted list.
We provide one level of nesting for groups for the list of internal packages. If
you don't want groups then please put all packages in the one group.

* `dhall2config` - When generating the cabal project we keep [package
  groups](#package-groups), generating the same tree structure but replacing the
  leaves. From each `group-name.dhall`, we generate a `group-name.config` file
  and then in the project there is one `import
  project-cabal/pkgs/group-name.config` for each group.
* `dhall2cabal` - This template lists packages within the cabal project.
* `dhall2stack` - Stack projects cannot import so necessarily must lose the
  grouping and contain the list of packages.

### Stackage Resolver and Constraints

The stackage resolver is able to provide us with a list of packages that work
together for both stack and cabal. Any other dependencies as constraints or
source packages are either not found on stackage or are different versions.

By specifying a resolver with stack we get a list of exact `==` versions for
packages published to stackage. Stackage also publishes a `cabal.config` file
that has these package versions as cabal constraints. As cabal constraints are
additive, in practice importing directly from stackage often leads to conflicts
between stackage's constraints and the project's own constraints and for that
reason we'll usually have to download the `cabal.config` from
stackage[^stackage-config-url-path] and comment out lines that are conflicted.

[^stackage-config-url-path]: The URL path to download this file from is
  `/resolver/cabal.config`. The latest nightly is always at
  https://www.stackage.org/nightly/cabal.config.

We don't expect any packages to impose constraints on their dependencies at the
package level, in their `.cabal` files, but if they do then these constraints
must fit with constraints at the project level.

### List of Source Packages

There are various reasons to depend on source packages and forks of source
packages; to keep a mirror within your organization, to add fixes that haven't been
upstreamed yet, or to pick up a fix someone else has made but hasn't yet been merged
upstream, released and published.

### Why Dhall for Configuration?

Dhall has excellent imports. It is an intentionally limited programming
language. You won't be able to compare anything but `Natural` values so sorting
something like `List Text` is not possible within it but there is great interop
with Haskell so this can be done there.

The `dhall` executable comes with a `format` command[^format-lsp]. This helps in
the maintenance of the various `.dhall` files.

We use dhall's `text` command to write cabal and stack projects using [dhall
text templating][dhall-text-templating].

[^format-lsp]: Formatting is also available with the [Dhall LSP Server][LSP].

## Maintaining a Project

All configuration goes into `./project-dhall` (where `.` is the root folder for
your Haskell project) except for the `cabal.config` that we'll need to download
from stackage. Save this file as `project-stackage/lts-m.n.config` using the
exact resolver name.

```
project-stackage
└── lts-m.n.config
```

### Package Groups
In the `pkgs` folder, create one or more groups for related packages.

```
project-dhall
├── ghc-x.y.z
├── pkgs
│   ├── db.dhall      ▨ List Text
│   ├── server.dhall  ▨ List Text
│   └── tools.dhall   ▨ List Text
└── pkg-groups.dhall  ▨ List Text
```

The contents of each group is a `List Text` of relative paths to folders
containing package `.cabal` files.

```dhall
[ "./tool/linter/"
, "./tool/formatter/"
]
```

List the package groups in `pkg-groups.dhall`[^pkg-groups]. This gives you
control of the imports in the generated `./project-cabal/pkgs.config`,
itself imported into `ghc-x.y.z.dhall2config.project`:

```cabal
-- ./project-cabal/pkgs.config
import: project-cabal/pkgs/db.config
import: project-cabal/pkgs/server.config
import: project-cabal/pkgs/tools.config

-- ./ghc-x.y.z.dhall2config.project
import: project-stackage/lts-m.n.config

import: project-cabal/pkgs.config

import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/constraints.config
import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/deps-external.config
import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/deps-internal.config
import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/forks-external.config
import: project-cabal/ghc-x.y.z/forks-internal.config
```

[^pkg-groups]: Dhall can't do arbitrary IO like reading files from a folder.

For each `ghc-x.y.z` compiler version, create this set of inputs and templates:

```
project-dhall
└── ghc-x.y.z
    ├── constraints.dhall      ▨ List { dep : Text, ver : Text }
    ├── deps-external.dhall    ▨ List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
    ├── deps-internal.dhall    ▨ List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
    ├── forks-external.dhall   ▨ List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
    ├── forks-internal.dhall   ▨ List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
    └── text-templates
        ├── dhall2cabal.dhall  ▨ template for ghc-x.y.z.dhall2cabal.project
        ├── dhall2config.dhall ▨ template for ghc-x.y.z.dhall2config.project
        ├── dhall2stack.dhall  ▨ template for ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
        └── stacksnippet.dhall ▨ anything for ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

Anything in `stacksnippet.dhall` gets added to the top of the generated stack
project[^base.yaml].  The rest of the files are inputs. In
constraints[^constraints] put published packages that you want to use that are
not on stackage or if they are on stackage where you want to use a different
version.

[^base.yaml]: Anything in `stacksnippet.dhall` will be used by
  [dhall2yaml2stack](alternatives/yaml2stack#readme) too and is put into a
  `base.yaml`, the topmost fragment when stitching together fragments.

[^constraints]: To stack, constraints and source repository packages are
    both `extra-deps`. We use cabal-like nomenclature but, be warned, cabal
    constraints cover more than just `package ==version`, such as flags:
    ```cabal
    constraints:
        bson -_old-network
      , HaXml +splitbase
    ```

```dhall
[ { dep = "diagrams-postscript", ver = "1.5" }
, { dep = "diagrams-svg", ver = "1.4.3" }
]
```

The type of constraints is a list of records with dependency and version fields:

```dhall
List { dep : Text, ver : Text }
```
  
The type of the other files are all the same. They contain a list of records
with fields for location, tag (commit SHA) and subdirectories:

```dhall
List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
```

Any empty `sub` field must be type annotated like this `[] : List Text`. Each
source repository package record will bring in one dependency or as many as
there are `sub` fields.

These source repository `*.dhall` files are for original work from your
organisation (internal) and from third parties (external) and for internal and
external forks. If using the empty list in any one of these files then use an
explicit type annotation:

```dhall
[] : List { loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text }
```

With the `dhall text` command we're able to mirror to both stack and cabal
projects using string templates. See [templates](./TEMPLATES.md) for more.

## Upgrading a Project

For a GHC compiler upgrade, add another folder to `project-dhall` for the
upgrade from `ghc-u.v.w` to `ghc-x.y.z`:

```
project-dhall
├── ghc-u.v.w
├── ghc-x.y.z
├── pkgs
│   ├── db.dhall            ▨ List Text
│   ├── server.dhall        ▨ List Text
│   └── tools.dhall         ▨ List Text
├── pkg-groups.dhall        ▨ List Text
└── pkgs-upgrade-todo.dhall ▨ List Text
```

At the start of a GHC upgrade put all packages into
`project-dhall/pkgs-upgrade-todo.dhall`. As the upgrade progresses remove
packages from this list as you work on them.

For a dependency version upgrade, add or change an entry in `constraints.dhall`
and if that dependency is on stackage for the resolver we're using and if the
version there differs then comment out that entry in the downloaded
`project-stackage/resolver-name.config` file to avoid impossible constraint
solving conflicts with cabal.

For a source repository upgrade, bump the `tag` field if picking up a newer
version.

If the `tag` you were on has been superseded by a published version then delete
the entry and add a constraint unless the published version is already a match
in the downloaded `cabal.config` file from stackage.

If you are forking then you'll want to add a record to `fork-internal.dhall` and
then:
- If forking a stackage package: comment out the entry in the downloaded `cabal.config`
- If forking a hackage package: delete the matching entry in `constraints.dhall`

Using someone else's fork is the same except add the record to
`fork-external.dhall`.

Unforking goes the other way, remove the `fork-*.dhall` entry and either
fallback to the stackage version or another version for which you'll add an
entry in `constraints.dhall`.

## Make Targets

In the root of your project, add two files.

```
.
├── project-files.mk
└── project-versions.mk
```

In `project-versions.mk` set variables for GHC and STACKAGE.

```make
GHC_VERSION := u.v.w
GHC_UPGRADE := x.y.z
STACKAGE_VERSION := lts-j.k
STACKAGE_UPGRADE := lts-m.n
```

Here is a basic set up for `project-files.mk`:

```make
include project-versions.mk
include updo/Makefile
```

With this set up we can build projects:

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2config.project
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2cabal.project
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

For stack, the project and its lock are separate targets (`.yaml` and
`.yaml.lock`).

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
dhall text --file project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/project-stack.dhall > ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml.lock
stack build --dry-run --stack-yaml ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

We don't provide a make target for cabal `.project.freeze` files, relying
instead on a combination of constraints, those in the `cabal.config` downloaded
from stackage and those we add ourselves to `constraints.dhall`. If you do want
to freeze anyway there's a cabal command to generate a freeze file.

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.dhall2cabal.project
dhall text --file project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/project-cabal.dhall > ghc-x.y.z.dhall2cabal.project
```

## Clean GHC-Prefixed Projects

There's a make target to remove all `ghc-x.y.z` prefixed projects:

```
$ make -f project-files.mk clean
rm -f ghc-*.stack.* ghc-*.dhall2config.* ghc-*.dhall2cabal.* ghc-*.dhall2stack.*
ghc-*.stack2cabal.* ghc-*.cabal2stack.* ghc-*.dhall2yaml2stack.* ghc-*.sha256map.nix
```

## GHC-Prefixed Projects as Temporary

To treat `ghc-x.y.z` prefixed files as temporary, add lines like these to
`project-files.mk`:

```make
.INTERMEDIATE: ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).$(CABAL_VIA).project
.INTERMEDIATE: ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).$(STACK_VIA).yaml
.INTERMEDIATE: ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).sha256map.nix
```

We use CABAL_VIA and STACK_VIA variables to decide which `ghc-x.y.z` prefixed
projects will be copied to the default project names (`cabal.project` and
`stack.yaml`).

This way, Updo will create a single pair of projects (`cabal.project` and
`stack.yaml`) for one version of GHC.

## SHA256 Map Generation Method

With this snippet from `project-files.mk`, we can switch between two methods of
generating `ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix`.

```make
# How to generate nix/services/stackProject/sha256map.nix?
# This is copied from ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).sha256map.nix.
#  - false to generate from *.dhall inputs via sha256map.hs.
#  - true to generate from stack.yaml via sha256map.py.
SHA256MAP_VIA_PYTHON := false

# If true, generate the sha256map from the stack.yaml with python,
# overriding the recipe for this target.
ifeq ($(SHA256MAP_VIA_PYTHON), true)
ghc-$(GHC_VERSION).sha256map.nix: stack.yaml
	updo/project-nix/sha256map.py <$^ >$@
endif
```

The default is to use the `sha256map.hs` script to generate
it[^replacing_versions]:

[^replacing_versions]: Using ghc-x.y.z and lts-m.n in the example output, not
  the actual GHC version or resolver.

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix --always-make
echo \
  '[./project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/deps-external.dhall
  , ./project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/deps-internal.dhall
  , ./project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/forks-external.dhall
  , ./project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/forks-internal.dhall
  , ([] : List {loc : Text, tag : Text, sub : List Text})
  ]' \
  | ./updo/project-nix/sha256map.hs > ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix
```

To use the `sha256map.py` script instead that is much slower:

```
$ make -f project-files.mk ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix --always-make SHA256MAP_VIA_PYTHON=true
mkdir -p .updo && updo/project-dhall/pkgs-sorted.hs > .updo/pkgs-sorted.dhall
echo \
  './project-dhall/ghc-x.y.z/text-templates/dhall2stack.dhall
   ./.updo/pkgs-sorted.dhall "lts-m.n"' \
  | dhall text --output ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
cp ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml stack.yaml
updo/project-nix/sha256map.py <stack.yaml >ghc-x.y.z.sha256map.nix
rm ghc-x.y.z.dhall2stack.yaml
```

You can [read more about Updo Nix](project-nix#readme) and its use with
haskell.nix.

[dhall-text-templating]: https://www.haskellforall.com/2017/06/dhall-is-now-template-engine.html
[LSP]: https://github.com/PanAeon/vscode-dhall-lsp-server
